REQ-ID:  HMcN-1
Description:  Payment receipt should be easily understood by the patient
Type:  11 - Non-functional (usability)
Rationale:  The payment receipt is for the Patient to keep a record of treatments and payments they have completed.  So the receipt should be easy to understand by any average person.  
Fit Criterion:  9 out of 10 patients should be able to recognise the amount they have paid, the payment method used and what treatments they have paid for within 10 seconds of looking at the receipt.
Originator:  Carol (Office Manager), Neil (Owner)
Comments: 
[HMcN] This requirement should capture the simplicity and usability of the receipt.  The numbers arrived at for the fit criteria are speculative and more research into effective boundaries would improve the fit criteria.

[GA]: This type of non-functional requirement looks more like "usability" than "look and feel," so we could probably improve the measurability of the fit criterion. We could say "nine out of ten patients will have grasped the information after looking at the receipt for 10 seconds." The 90% you've mentioned refers to the information in the receipt, which is fine, but it may be quite difficult to quantify. Using the proposal I'm putting forward here, you could have 40 patients read the receipt for 10 seconds and then check how many of them have successfully grasped the information. If only maximum four and minimum zero patients haven't been unsuccessful, then the requirement can be accepted (acceptance test). 

[MW]: I would like to suggest that the Fit Criterion doesn't meet the quality gateway as it doesn't address the measurable element appropriately. The measure should address the product not the people reading it. The concept of memorising the data on the receipt is different than understanding the information read.  Example: Upon reading the receipt, nine out of ten patients should be able to determine three key values: the payment amount, the VAT and the discount if applicable.

[DC]: I feel that the FC is untestable in its current form as 90% of what "the information" on the receipt relates to is not defined. In my opinion, it would be more appropriate to check that a person can find/recognise a specified piece of relevant information on the receipt in a reasonable timeframe, rather than performing a memory test on them. For example, I might word the FC as: "9 out of 10 patients should be able to recognise the amount they have paid, the payment method used and what treatments they have paid for within 10 seconds of looking at the receipt."

[CG]: This requirements is a good feature the system might have, even though it does not help in reaching the project's goals overall. The fit criterion is quantitative but  the test proposed doesn't meet the purpose (as it was noted in other comments, it's more about memory than understanding). 

[HMcN] Updated - based on the various similar feedback the FC has been updated with [DC]'s wording.  This moves the fit criteria from focusing on memorizing, to understanding; also move the "business tolerance" to a percentage of patients rather than a percentage of information.  
Previous FC:  After looking at an example receipt for 10 seconds, any (untrained) person should be able to remember 90% of the information included on the receipt
New FC: 9 out of 10 patients should be able to recognise the amount they have paid, the payment method used and what treatments they have paid for within 10 seconds of looking at the receipt.