REQ-ID: NFR-RF03-MW
Description: The product shall display the patient record/information for a given patient faster.
Type: Non-Functional (performance)
Rationale: This will enable the user/receptionist to confirm that the patient is the subject of the completed treatment/new appointment booking in a much shorter time, enabling the receptionists to attend to more patients.
Originator: Carol (Office Manager)
Fit Criterion: The user/receptionist should be able to access the patient’s record/information within 3 seconds from clicking on the record in the appointments/treatment system. The product continues to do the same work, but a lot quicker.

Comments:
 [HMcN] The FC is incomplete and ambiguous in terms of the quality gateway criteria. 
 -Is 3 seconds the time it takes for the user(receptionist) to look up the patient in total, or the amount of time the database takes to return a record?  Perhaps a better wording would be "The product shall display patient information in no more than x actions, and within 3 seconds from when the user(receptionist) begins their search." -> this specifies a more concrete outcome (displays patient information) and is less solution bound in it's starting action (instead of "from opening the window").  
 -Secondly the Type requirement should include a number specifying which type of non-functional requirement this is.  The template also includes an Originator section to to improve traceability.  
 -Lastly, the final sentence (of the fit criterion) is probably not appropriate for a fit criteria - and would likely be moved to the rational or removed entirely.
 [DC] -I broadly agree with HMcN's above comments that the final sentence in the FC is unnecessary, as it provides no quantitative substance to allow for useful testing/verification. The description is also poorly phrased as requiring to display the patient record "faster" suggests that we already have performance issues with a system we haven't built yet.
      -However, I don't entirely agree that the inital portion of the FC is ambiguous, but the fact that HMcN found it to be unclear suggests that it might be worth refining. My interpretation of the FC as written is that the system should take less than 3 seconds for the patient's relevant information appear on-screen from the moment a patient is selected from a list of search results.
[CG] This requirement won't pass the quality gateway "as-is" because it's solution-bound (it mentions "clicking" on the record in the appointment system). Moreover, the attributes are incomplete, like HMcN pointed out. In conclusion, I would like to say that the terminology is not consistent according to me: there are mentions of user/receptionists and then only receptionists and from the start of the project we have been calling this "the appointment system", there's no need to call it appointment/treatment. 