REQ-ID: NFR-RF16-MI
Description: Invoices should be produced in a timely manner.
Type: Non-functional (performance)
Rationale: Invoicing is crucial part of business operations and it's important that invoices are raised and sent as soon as practicable. 
Fit Criterion: The accounts system must be able to create the invoice within 1 hour of treatment completion.
Originator: Business Analyst
Comments: 
[MI] Initial comment: the original functional requirement crosses the product boundary as it concerns the interface of our/"the product" and the existing accounts system which actually raises the invoice. We cannot readily specify a performance requirement for the existing accounts system as that isn't in scope, but we can for an interface.
[DE] I would suggest that the 1-hour timer should start when the receptionist confirms, within the appointment product, that direct invoicing is the payment method. Otherwise, how would the system know when treatment has completed? Also, I would be interested in how you arrived at the 1-hour target. Were assumptions made about how the accounts system works? Beyond that, the fit criterion does include a quantitative measure, it can be used a input into acceptance test design and it does contribute to the project purpose.
[H.M.] : there are 2 problems with this requirement. first, the wording of the description is not consistent with other requirements (it usually should start with "The product shall"), second the fit criterion has been put on Accounts system! this would make the whole requirement out of scope. we don't know about the account system or how long their process will take after our product has done its part in generating an invoice. if this requirement means that "one hour after completed treatment, Accounts system should be able to "start" producing or retrieving an invoice", why is there 1 hour delay? what is the "one hour" based on? stakeholders haven't asked for this and we can't see any evidence that the system should take one hour to produce an invoice. why can't it do so immediately after records are entered?