REQ-ID: NFR02
Description: The product shall retrieve patient records fast enough to avoid disrupting the user’s flow of activity.
Type: Performance (Type 12)
Rationale: To enable quick and efficient activities by the end-users. And to allow time savings compared to the manual process
Fit Criterion: The patient record retrieval time shall be no more than 1 second for 95% of retrievals and no more than 2.5 seconds for the remainder
Originator: Carol (Office Manager)
Comments: [GA] We could probably remove the first part of the NFC and just start with the second one: "No record retrieval shall take more than 2.5 seconds"; minimum retrieval time shall be 1 second. I suggest this change because when it comes to retrieving information from a system, it should be 100%. If 10% of the information is not displayed, then there is a problem that needs immediate fixing. We may also have difficulty quantifying the information retrieved and determine the percentage. One example is when we want to find the time a patient booked his/her appointment. Whereas it is possible to quantify here, say, check whether the day, month and year are displayed, so that 1 piece of information goes with 25%, this task may be tedious and cumbersome to handle. It will just be an inaccuracy if I'm presented with the day only (Monday), when I expect Monday, 25 March 2020. Let's see what the other fellows say.
Comments: [H.M.] This fit criterion can be used as an input to define test cases as it has quantified measures, we can record the time taken to retrive information of 10 patients and test against this criteria, so it meets gateway standards. however, the numbers (1 and 2.5 seconds) don't seem to have proven basis. Stakeholders don't seem to have asked for this numbers, is there any evidence or benchmark that retriving a profile would take between 1 and 2.5 seconds? 
Comments: [DC] In response to GA's comment, I feel that they might have misunderstood the intention of this NFR as it is not related to displaying any patient information, merely just the discovery of patients in the system via a search. While I am confident that the FC is requiring patient searches to take no longer than 1 second before offering results (9 times out of 10), it could be misinterpreted to read as requiring that 90% of search results are displayed within 1 second, which is how I believe GA read it, albeit while thinking about patient details rather than patient search results.
Comments: [CG] The requirement is within scope, since it implements one of the functionality in the DFD ("Identifying patient through patient's record") and the fit criterion is a good testable input for developers since it's quantitative. I think it is also meaningful to stakeholders (i.e., receptionists), like specified in the rationale. 
Comments: [DE, 17/03/2020] Based on feedback, revised to clarify the FC measure