REQ-ID:	NFR-RF06-DC
Description: The product shall promptly display results when searching for a therapist in the system.
Type: Non-functional - Performance (Type 12)
Rationale: For ease and efficiency of use, the system should respond to all input in a timely manner. Receptionists will be performing searches for therapists with high frequency, so any unnecessarily wasted time on this task would soon add up to a significant usability problem.
Fit Criterion: When searching for a therapist's record, the result of the search should be displayed within 2 seconds of initiating it in 95% of cases, with the remainder taking no longer than 5 seconds to display.
Originator: Carol (Office manager)
Comments: [MI] The NFR and rationale make sense and the fit criterion is OK. 2 seconds sounds like a reasonable length of time, but how do we know it is realistic to guarantee this in all cases? Could testing prove it? Assessing feasibility may require analysis of technical capabilities and possibly negotiation with stakeholders if this is not feasible within project budget. Alternately you could specify something like 90% of responses will be within 2 seconds and 0% will take longer than 5 seconds - but again this involves some assumption on technical feasability.
[CG] The fit criterion for this NFR is abstract enough and not solution-bound to be a good input for developers. 
[DC] After considering the feedback provided above, I have adjusted the fit criterion to better account for potential technical uncertainties when dealing with the length of time it takes to retrieve the correct therapist record from the provided identifier. While more precise expectations could be sought from stakeholders directly, I feel it is reasonable to necessitate that 95% of searches will return results within 2 seconds, allowing up to 5 seconds for the remainder. The original FC wording may have led developers to over-engineer the product at considerable additional expense to ensure that the 2-second limit was met, even though it would not decrease the usability of the product by any significant degree if a small number of searches exceded this limit.
